Adding a long-form Power Automate sample (#119)
OfficeDev/office-scripts-docs: docs/resources/scenarios/task-reminders.md

> ---

Reviewer: Will you be adding this to the TOC?

Author: That would probably help.

title: 'Office Scripts sample scenario: Automated task reminders'
description: 'A sample that uses Power Automate and Adaptive Cards automate task reminders in a project management spreadsheet.'
ms.date: 06/05/2020
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Office Scripts sample scenario: Automated task reminders

> In this scenario you're managing a project and use an Excel worksheet to track your employees' status. Some people forget to put an entry in the spreadsheet and need to be reminded. Rather than emailing them individually, you want to do this as one action. You also want to use a Teams Adaptive Card to get their statuses, so that people don't have to find the correct spreadsheet for this month.

Author: Hmm, I'm trying to present the "Scenario" as something the customer is trying to achieve. That's why the tense is "you want to do x" or "you're trying to do y". Maybe that's not clear enough. Any advice?

## Scripting skills covered

- Create flows in Power Automate
- Pass data to scripts
- Return data from scripts
- Teams Adaptive Cards
- Tables

## Prerequisites

> This scenario uses [Power Automate](https://preview.flow.microsoft.com) and [Microsoft Teams](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software). You will need both associated with the account that you use for developing Office Scripts. For free access to a Microsoft Developer subscription to learn and work with these applications, consider joining the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scenario uses [Power Automate](https://preview.flow.microsoft.com) and [Microsoft Teams](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software). You will need both associated with the account that you use for developing Office Scripts. For free access to a Microsoft Developer subscription to learn about and work with these applications, consider joining the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program).
```

## Setup instructions

1. Download <a href="task-reminders.xlsx">task-reminders.xlsx</a> to your OneDrive.

> 2. Open the workbook with Excel for the web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open the workbook in Excel on the web.
```

     *
     * @returns An array of Employee objects (containing their names and emails).
     */
    function main(workbook: ExcelScript.Workbook): Employee[] {
      // Get the first worksheet and the first table on that worksheet.
      let sheet = workbook.getFirstWorksheet()
      let table = sheet.getTables()[0];

      // Give the column indices names matching their expected content.
      const NAME_INDEX = 0;
      const EMAIL_INDEX = 1;
      const STATUS_REPORT_INDEX = 2;

      // Get the data for the whole table.
      let bodyRangeValues = table.getRangeBetweenHeaderAndTotal().getValues();

      // Create the array of Employee objects to return.
      let people: Employee[] = [];

      // Loop through the table and check each row for completion.
      for (let i = 0; i < bodyRangeValues.length; i++) {
        let row = bodyRangeValues[i];
        if (row[STATUS_REPORT_INDEX] === "") {
          // Save the email to return.
          people.push({ name: row[NAME_INDEX], email: row[EMAIL_INDEX] });
        }
      }

      // Log the array to verify we're getting the right rows.
      console.log(people);

      // Return the array of Employees.

>       return [];

Reviewer: Shouldn't this return the people array?

Author: Good catch!

      // Get the range and data for the whole table.
      let bodyRange = table.getRangeBetweenHeaderAndTotal();
      let tableRowCount = bodyRange.getRowCount();
      let bodyRangeValues = bodyRange.getValues();

      // Create a flag to denote success.
      let statusAdded = false;

      // Loop through the table and check each row for a matching email address.
      for (let i = 0; i < tableRowCount && !statusAdded; i++) {
        let row = bodyRangeValues[i];

        // Check if the row's email address matches.
        if (row[EMAIL_INDEX] === senderEmail) {
          // Add the Teams Adaptive Card response to the table.
          bodyRange.getCell(i, STATUS_REPORT_INDEX).setValues([
            [statusReportResponse]
          ]);
          statusAdded = true;
        }
      }

      // If successful, log the status update.
      if (statusAdded) {
        console.log(
          `Successfully added status report for ${senderEmail} containing: ${statusReportResponse}`
        );
      }
    }
    ```

7. Save the script with the name **Save Status**.

8. Now, we need to create the flow. Open [Power Automate](https://preview.flow.microsoft.com/).

>     > [!TIP] If you haven't created a flow before, please check out our tutorial [Start using scripts with Power Automate](../../tutorials/excel-power-automate-manual.md) to learn the basics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > [!TIP]
    > If you haven't created a flow before, check out our tutorial [Start using scripts with Power Automate](../../tutorials/excel-power-automate-manual.md) to learn the basics.
```

9. Create a new **Instant flow**.

10. Choose **Manually trigger a flow** from the options and press **Create**.

11. The flow needs to call the **Get People** script to get all the employees with empty status fields. Press **New step** and select **Excel Online (Business)**. Under **Actions**, select **Run script (preview)**. Provide the following entries for the flow step:

    - **Location**: OneDrive for Business
    - **Document Library**: OneDrive
    - **File**: task-reminders.xlsx
    - **Script**: Get People

>     ![The first Run script flow step.](../../images/scenario-task-reminders-last-flow-step.png)

Reviewer: Looks like this is using the wrong png?

12. Next, the flow needs to process each Employee in the array returned by the script. Press **New step** and select **Post an Adaptive Card to a Teams user and wait for a response**.

> 13. For the **Recipient** field, add **email** from the dynamic content (the selection will have the Excel logo by it). Adding **email** causes the flow step to be surrounded by an **Apply to each** block. That means the array will be iterated over by Power Automate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
13. For the **Recipient** field, add **email** from the dynamic content (the selection will have the Excel logo next to it). Adding **email** causes the flow step to be surrounded by an **Apply to each** block. That means the array will be iterated over by Power Automate.
```

    ```json
    {
      "$schema": "http://adaptivecards.io/schemas/adaptive-card.json",
      "type": "AdaptiveCard",
      "version": "1.0",
      "body": [
        {
          "type": "TextBlock",
          "size": "Medium",
          "weight": "Bolder",
          "text": "Update your Status Report"
        },
        {
          "type": "Image",
          "altText": "",
          "url": "https://i.imgur.com/f5RcuF3.png"
        },
        {
          "type": "TextBlock",
          "text": "This is a reminder to update your status report for this month's review. You can do so right here in this card, or by adding it directly to the spreadsheet.",
          "wrap": true
        },
        {
          "type": "Input.Text",
          "placeholder": "My status report for this month is...",
          "id": "response",
          "isMultiline": true
        }
      ],
      "actions": [
        {
          "type": "Action.Submit",
          "title": "Submit",
          "id": "submit"
        },
        {
          "type": "Action.OpenUrl",
          "title": "Open Spreadsheet",

>           "url": "https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/:x:/t/OfficePlatform/EZS8IHK8HV5FiQIp4IyiD-4BCZ0FR0r0oSkL4f3jQJBP4g?e=OQRrlZ",

Reviewer: Is this accessible to external folks or is this only for internal verification?

          "id": "open-spreadsheet"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

15. Fill out the remaining fields as follows:

    - **Update message**: Thank you for submitting your status report. Your response has been successfully added to the spreadsheet.
    - **Should update card**: Yes

16. In the **Apply to each** block, following the **Post an Adaptive Card to a Teams user and wait for a response**, press **Add an action**. Select **Excel Online (Business)**. Under **Actions**, select **Run script (preview)**. Provide the following entries for the flow step:

    - **Location**: OneDrive for Business
    - **Document Library**: OneDrive
    - **File**: task-reminders.xlsx
    - **Script**: Save Status
    - **senderEmail**: email *(dynamic content from Excel)*
    - **statusReportResponse**: response *(dynamic content from Teams)*

>     ![The apply to each flow step.](../../images/scenario-task-reminders-last-flow-step.png)

Reviewer: I don't think this is the right tooltip...?

Author: The image is of the "apply-to-each" block automatically added to the flow by Power Automate. I'm open to ideas for tooltip improvement, but the goal of the image is to highlight that both the card and second script are in that block.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38896772/84086425-ba12ad80-a99c-11ea-8703-d9286091d97d.png)

17. Save the flow.

## Running the flow

To test the flow, make sure any table rows with blank status use an email address tied to a Teams account (you should probably use your own email address while testing).

> You can either select **Test** from the flow designer, or run the flow from the **My flows** page. After starting the flow and accepting the use of the  required connections, you should receive an Adaptive Card from Power Automate through Teams. Once you fill out the status field in the card, the flow will continue and update the spreadsheet with the status you provide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can either select **Test** from the flow designer, or run the flow from the **My flows** page. After starting the flow and accepting the use of the required connections, you should receive an Adaptive Card from Power Automate through Teams. Once you fill out the status field in the card, the flow will continue and update the spreadsheet with the status you provide.
```
